Git:
    ◦ Do you know what Git stash is and what it does?
    ◦ What is a Git repository and how does it work?
• Kubernetes (K8s) & GKE:
    ◦ What command do you use if you have to do a manual deployment using Kubernetes resources (like a deployment YAML file)?
    ◦ Have you ever used GKE (Google Kubernetes Engine) clusters?
    ◦ What is the concept and purpose of a GKE cluster?
    ◦ What do you understand by Kubernetes and what are the components of Kubernetes?
• Jenkins:
    ◦ Can you explain the Jenkins stages for a pipeline?
• Google Cloud Platform (GCP):
    ◦ Have you ever set up firewall rules in GCP?
    ◦ How do you control traffic (specifically regarding firewall rules or security groups)?
    ◦ What is the function of a bucket in GCP?
    ◦ How can you control the access for a bucket, and specifically, how do you do that?
    ◦ Can you explain the concept of uptime checks and how you contribute to monitoring in GCP?
• Experience:
    ◦ What kind of issues have you resolved so far, and have you handled any critical issues in your environment?
Logistical and Personal Questions
Toward the end of the interview, the interviewer asked several questions regarding the candidate's professional status:
• Do you have any queries [for me]?
• Currently, are you working with [a specific company]?
• Are you on your notice period?
• How many days are left in your notice period?
• Are you holding any [other] offers?


Git
1. What is Git stash and what does it do?

Answer:
Git stash is used to temporarily save changes that I’m working on but don’t want to commit yet.
It helps when I need to switch branches quickly without losing my work.
Later, I can bring those changes back using git stash apply or git stash pop.

2. What is a Git repository and how does it work?

Answer:
A Git repository is a place where project code and its history are stored.
It tracks all changes made to files, who made them, and when.
Developers can clone the repository, create branches, commit changes, and merge them back.

Kubernetes (K8s) & GKE
3. What command do you use for manual deployment using Kubernetes YAML files?

Answer:
I use:

kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml


This command creates or updates Kubernetes resources defined in the YAML file.

4. Have you ever used GKE clusters?

Answer:
Yes, I have worked with GKE clusters.
I’ve used them to deploy, manage, and scale containerized applications on Google Cloud.

5. What is the concept and purpose of a GKE cluster?

Answer:
A GKE cluster is a managed Kubernetes environment provided by Google Cloud.
It helps run containerized applications reliably by managing nodes, scaling, networking, and security.

6. What is Kubernetes and what are its components?

Answer:
Kubernetes is a container orchestration tool used to deploy, manage, and scale containers.

Main components are:

Master/Control Plane – manages the cluster

Nodes – machines that run containers

Pods – smallest deployable unit

Deployments – manage pod replicas

Services – expose applications

ConfigMaps & Secrets – manage configuration and sensitive data

Jenkins
7. Can you explain Jenkins pipeline stages?

Answer:
A Jenkins pipeline is divided into stages such as:

Checkout – pull code from Git

Build – compile or build the application

Test – run unit or integration tests

Deploy – deploy to server or Kubernetes
Each stage helps track progress and identify failures easily.

Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
8. Have you set up firewall rules in GCP?

Answer:
Yes, I have created firewall rules to allow or deny traffic based on IP ranges, ports, and protocols.

9. How do you control traffic using firewall rules or security groups?

Answer:
Traffic is controlled by:

Defining allow or deny rules

Setting source IP ranges

Specifying ports and protocols

Applying rules to specific VM instances or networks

10. What is the function of a bucket in GCP?

Answer:
A bucket in GCP is used to store objects, such as files, logs, backups, and images, using Google Cloud Storage.

11. How do you control access to a GCP bucket?

Answer:
Access is controlled using IAM roles.
We can grant permissions like:

Viewer (read-only)

Editor

Admin
We assign these roles to users, service accounts, or groups.

12. What are uptime checks and how do you use them?

Answer:
Uptime checks monitor whether an application or service is available and responding.
I configure uptime checks and set alerts so that we get notified if a service goes down.

Experience
13. What kind of issues have you resolved? Have you handled critical issues?

Answer:
I have resolved issues related to deployments, pod crashes, memory issues, and CI/CD failures.
Yes, I’ve handled critical production issues by quickly identifying the root cause, rolling back changes, and restoring services.

Logistical & Personal Questions
14. Do you have any queries for me?

Answer:
Yes, I’d like to know more about the team structure and the technologies I’d be working with.

15. Are you currently working with [company]?

Answer:
Yes, I am currently working with [company name].
(If not, say: “No, I am not currently working there.”)

16. Are you on your notice period?

Answer:
Yes / No
(Answer honestly)

17. How many days are left in your notice period?

Answer:
I have X days remaining in my notice period.

18. Are you holding any other offers?

Answer:
Yes, I am currently evaluating another offer.
(or)
No, I am not holding any other offers at the moment.
